# space_invaders
Recreated Classic Arcade Game in Python. Learnt Pygame Library and applied OOP fundamentals. 
I completed this project on my own during summer 2023. In preparation for the project, I first created a less complex game to better familiarize myself with Python’s game development library "Pygame". I created tic-tac-toe as my first game and then moved onto Space Invaders. I designed the game entirely based around object-oriented programming. Object-oriented programming was a topic I was exposed to in my first year of studies. I found it interesting and decided to pursue game development in Python so that I could put that knowledge into practice and gain experience designing a program around objects. 
The code consisted of three main classes; the ”Invader Class”, the “Player” class, and the “Lazer” class. The final code was approximately 300 lines. Before I began coding, I planned out the general workflow of my program utilizing a flowchart and some rough pseudocode for each class. I found this step very useful as I constantly referred to it throughout the duration of the project. Programming space invaders was a big step up from tic-tac-toe and I had to learn more about Python’s Pygame library through YouTube tutorials and the Pygame website. Topics I researched included cooldowns, collisions, images, sound effects, and animations. After my research was complete, I finalized my pseudocode and began to code. 
A challenge I encountered while coding the game was keeping my code organized. I had never written a project this big before and I found my code becoming harder to review as its length increased. To solve this, I segmented my code into more methods. This clarified the purpose of each block of code and made my codes workflow much easier to see upon review. Throughout the project I experimented with two ways of coding a task - a function and a method. Every process in my code was better suited to one approach. This experimentation allowed me to get a better understanding of which approach I should take when solving a problem. I was able to improve both the efficiency and readability of my code. 
I completed the project within seven days and thoroughly enjoyed the development process. I found that my coding practices had improved greatly, and that I had gained invaluable experience with object-oriented programming. 

